- [Instructor] Within the Bean Validation API
we're able to apply constraint annotations
on other annotations.
It's a way of building a custom validator
within the Bean Validation API.
This is very useful if we have some validation
that's going to be applied over and over
throughout our application.
So for instance, here we have a regex
that basically checks whether or not a string is alphabetic.
That could be a very common validation.
So let's go ahead and build another annotation
that will apply that validation and make it reusable
throughout our application.
So what we're going to do within our com.linkedin package
in the EJB project, we're just going to open the new dialog
and we're going to create a plain annotation.
So just select the Annotation under Java,
hit Next, and then we're going to
name this annotation Alphabetic.
You'll want to set the retention to runtime.
And then you can go ahead and select
the Type, Field, Method, Parameter,
Constructor, and Annotation type objects
for the target of this annotation
that specifies where it can be applied to.
We'll then go ahead and hit finish.
And that's going to build our alphabetic annotation,
but we do need to add some additional annotations to this.
So we're going to add the documented annotation.
And then we're also going to add the constraint annotation.
And here we'll have to specify the validatedBy element.
We can just leave that as an empty array.
It really doesn't apply here, but it's required.
And then finally we're able to use the pattern annotation.
So this annotation we've already seen it in action,
but what we haven't seen is there's a list field
on this annotation, and this allows us
to list different patterns that we would like
to apply when we use our new custom built validator.
So we've already seen that pattern.
So let's go over to the manufacturer field
and grab the pattern we'd like to apply.
So we can just reuse that.
Okay, so now we need to add a couple elements
within this annotation.
The first, we need to add a String that is named message,
and then we're going to default this
to actually an expression.
And we'll talk about that here in a minute.
We'll just call it invalid alphabetic.
Then we need to create an array of classes.
And these are going to be the groups
that we can provide for this annotation to apply to.
We saw those in the overview.
K, and we'll just default that to an empty array.
And then finally we need to add the payload.
And these are all just default things
that typically get placed in every annotation
that's going to be a constraint.
We'll go ahead and import the payload type.
And then let's grab this expression,
and we're going to replace our static string that
is serving us the message within our pattern annotation
using that expression.
Now the question is where does that value come from?
Well, within the validation API
we can use a properties file.
And that properties file has to be located
within the root of your class path.
So let's just go ahead and we will make a new file.
And within this file we can place different properties
that allow us to pull out the validation messages.
So this file is named ValidationMessages.properties.
And this is by default.
So if you want to go with the default name for this file
that's what you'll have to use.
And then clicking on Source here's where
we can provide those property values.
So here's our invalid.alphabetic property.
And then we can just say that it must be letters.
And with that message in place that completes
the configuration of our custom validator.
So there we can see the annotation,
and we now just need to replace our pattern
with our new custom validator.
So much easier to put an alphabetic annotation on there
than to actually write out the regex
where you may make a mistake.
So let's now
run our application.
So I'll just right click on the ear file,
go to run as, run on server,
and then I'll start opening a browser
so we can test this out.
Okay, so let's go ahead.
We'll enter a product,
and then we're going to enter some invalid value
into the manufacturer.
We'll make our available date valid
and we'll keep our description valid.
And there you can see our custom validator
did step in and it flagged the value we provided.
You'll also notice we got our custom validation message.
So let's change this over to alphabetic.
And if we do that our validation passes
and we can proceed with our application logic.
So that was a look at custom validators
that can be used within the Bean Validation API.